[robotic voice]
robots, activate.
[audience cheering]
hey, everyone
and welcome to battlebots,
the sport that puts
the robot in,
"hey, look at that robot
beat the crap out
of that other robot."
I'm chris rose,
and I'm joined, as always,
by ufc legend
and our fight analyst,
say hello to kenny florian.
[audience cheering]
thanks, chris, we're in
the thick of the qualifiers
and I got to tell you,
I am pumped
after last week's battles,
I got so hyped up,
I ran out to my local best buy
and challenged
a vacuum cleaner
to a fistfight.
So how'd that go?
I lost by decision.
I'm guessing you mean
their decision to have you
removed by security.
Suck master 5000.
Don't get cocky,
I own a lot of disguises
and I will be back
to finish what I started.
[audience cheering]
[chris] okay,
speaking of disguises,
as we get further
into the qualifying rounds,
we're starting to get an idea
of which bots are sheep
in wolves clothing
and which might
actually have what it takes
to go the distance.
And in a season
where each team gets a maximum
of just three fights
to impress
the selection committee,
you cannot take a day off.
And tonight's fight card
features a handful
of elite teams
desperate to prove
they belong in the top 32.
That includes stars
with their backs
against the wall,
like the 0-1 minotaur.
Daniel freitas and the crew
have traveled all the way
from brazil
on a mission to hoist
the giant nut this season.
Tonight, hungry rookie
dragon slayer will look
to stop them in their tracks.
[kenny] and we'll see
another mythical monster yeti
also try to secure
its first win of the season.
Co-captains greg gibson
and christian karlberg
know this could be win
or go home,
as they take on a buck with
a drum spinner even bigger
than theirs, pain train.
[chris] and at the top
of the marquee tonight,
sit two of the most
popular teams
in all of robot combat.
After decimating
their first opponent,
will bales at hypershock
will look to put one of
the greatest of all time,
donald hutson and lock-jaw
into a serious 0-2 hole.
[kenny] this is a must-win
match for lock-jaw and for
fan-favorite hypershock,
a victory could mean that this
season it's more than just
a pretty face,
it's the contender.
[chris] and speaking
of contenders,
we kick off the night
with a showdown between a bot
that could survive
a nuclear bomb
and another that hits
as hard as one.
Black dragon squares off
with victor soto and rotator.
They're both 1-0,
get ready
for some serious fireworks.
You ready?
-I'm ready.
You guys ready?
[audience cheering]
[chris] faruq, take it away.
Ladies and gentlemen,
are you ready?
It's robot fighting time.
[audience cheering]
[faruq] in the red square,
this bot might be golden,
but it won't thank you
for being a friend,
it'll straight up shake you
until you're meeting your end.
It's not old, it's classic.
It's ready to fight.
It's straight up immortal,
just like betty white.
It's rotator.
[audience cheering]
[chris] hey, any time
you can work betty white
into the equation,
you're all right with me.
And here they come, rotator,
you know, kenny, rotator
looked as destructive as ever
in its decision win
over kraken.
But victor soto was happy
about winning the control
points in that one.
[kenny] yeah, rotator
has always had
one of the most devastating
horizontal spinners,
but the wedge lets
victor added to its backside
this season are game changers.
They really help him
control the fight,
and tonight he'll use those
to try and get
under black dragon,
then whip around
for a spin attack.
In the blue square,
this robot comes to us
from brazil.
He has only two mottos,
to crush and to kill.
So before you step in the box,
you better update your will.
Introducing the tightest
feature high-speeding,
wire-eating, fire-breathing,
entire reason
why you're bleeding,
black dragon.
[audience cheering]
[chris] well, we've got two
teams from brazil tonight,
but only one has
the lucky duck,
black dragon took down icewave
in its first fight.
Kenny, this fire-breather
is tough to kill.
[kenny] yeah, it has
a powerful egg-beater drum,
but their game
is to outlast their opponent.
They've won fights completely
engulfed in flames.
The key tonight, though,
could be that wedge.
It has a slope and hardness
that were specifically
designed to take a hit
from rotator.
The brazilians are ready
for this fight, chris.
Rotator is as ready
as it can be against
black dragon,
one of the unique things
about rotator
is that we use both the front
and the back of the robot,
so we're going to have
these forks in the back.
I'm going to start off
basically trying to get
underneath them to see
if we can even get
underneath their plow.
If not, attack with the front,
see if we can actually damage
some parts, bend them
and then create
that clearance,
so that we can get
underneath them
and control them.
I want to get
all the points basically,
aggression, control, damage.
I want to get it all.
Over there is a really
reliable bot,
will be a three minutes fight.
I want to go after
their weapons.
I know that's where
I want to hit.
I know that's where I
can handle the energy.
So we will then just fight
because we have a special
wedge just made for rotator.
And we'll try the most
to control the fights,
counter their weapon
and push them
around the arena.
We have a motto that you're
the best and destroy the rest.
But now, rotator is the rest.
[audience cheering]
[robotic voice]
robots, activate.
[audience cheering]
[chris] for more on the crew
that's from miami, florida,
we bring in our bot whisperer,
pete, what do you have?
Well, you know,
there's always some drama
that happens in the pits,
and even a pro team
like victor's can sometimes
succumb to it.
They're not immune.
Victor showed up here,
all of his
lithium battery packs
were puffed up,
which means they were no good.
He couldn't use any.
He didn't have enough spares,
because all of those
were puffed.
So team mallis loaned them
a complete set of packs,
which they ran
in their last fight.
But the new packs
have showed up,
they've put connectors on
and they are ready to go.
[chris] so they'll be huffing
and puffing, perhaps...
You don't want to puffing
with lithium battery packs,
really bad for you to puff.
[robotic voice]
red team, ready?
Let's do it, man.
[chris] do it,
even the little guy
packs a punch.
[robotic voice]
blue team, ready?
Let's go.
[audience cheering]
[chris] the brazilians versus
the guy in gold,
the winner will move to 2-0
on the season.
Let the bot battle begin.
Here comes that flame.
Oh-oh, rotator gets
underneath, the brazilian's
right out of the gate.
That is a bad news
for black dragon, kenny.
[kenny] we know victor
was focused on winning
the ground war,
and it looks like
he's in great shape.
[chris] oh, rotator lands and
power shots to that custom
front wedge of black dragon.
[kenny] there goes victor
with that forks
first driving technique.
Let's see
if he can do it again,
those forks are doing
a great job
of getting underneath.
[chris] yeah.
Trying to work from the side
and stay away from the mouth
of that weapon and rotator,
oh, did a nice job
getting under
black dragon momentarily.
[kenny] black dragon just
needs one good fight with that
egg-beater weapon, chris.
[chris] black dragon's got
rotator against the rail,
breaths a little fire.
Rotator lands a jab
and gets itself out
of a dangerous spot there.
Both drivers being
very precise so far.
[kenny] yeah, they both have
a lot of respect for each
other's primary weapons
and both trying to get...
Oh, black dragon,
right back at it.
[chris] that was some...
[kenny] black dragon, now
we got a ball of flame.
[chris] wow.
Kenny, it's black dragon
on fire
on the right, right side.
[kenny] yeah...
[chris] we've seen him
on flames before,
but this is not a good time
to do it... Off rotator.
And rotator had to be
working off at the side there
for a segment now,
we've seen it before,
we mentioned it
in the pre-fight,
black dragon's been able
to work while on fire.
[kenny] oh.
[chris] can they continue
to do so here tonight?
[kenny] well,
we all know about
the durability of rotator.
Can black dragon
match it here?
[chris] oh, big shot
there by rotator.
Black dragon's weapon
no longer spinning.
[kenny] oh.
Can he make it another minute
and force a judge's decision?
[chris] now, it's become
a bit of a pushing match
here for black dragon.
Just follow the smoke
if you can't find it,
follow the smoke.
Black dragon
shadowing rotator now,
preventing from doing
any more damage
with that undercutting blade.
Closing in on a 45-second mark
and somehow black dragon
had been able to do it again,
kenny.
[kenny] yeah, they're doing
an amazing job
with that wedge,
sticking it out here,
staying alive.
[chris] victor soto pinning
black dragon,
showing excellent
control here.
Look for victor to tail whip
the brazilians on the release.
-[victor] release.
-Release.
[chris] there's the release
and there's the tail whip,
20 seconds left to go
in this one.
[kenny] oh.
[chris] black dragon getting
underneath rotator,
but that undercutting blade
won't stop spinning.
Rotator continuing
to dish out the damage.
[kenny] yeah. Rotator
attacking from above
like an attack helicopter.
[chris] five seconds.
[loud thud]
[chris] oh, that's a big hit.
[audience cheering]
[chris] somehow black dragon
made it the last 90 seconds
once while on fire.
[kenny] I know which team
I'm inviting to my house
for the barbecue,
because those guys
can party it up
when there is smoke and flame.
Wow!
[audience cheering]
[chris] so this fire fest
is now in the hands
of the judges and, kenny,
don't tell ja rule,
but we're going
to let the crew
clean up this mess.
It will have the decision
to this bot burner,
when we return on battlebots.
[audience cheering]
[chris] welcome back
to battlebots,
where rotator and black dragon
are awaiting a decision
after their insane fight
that saw the brazilians
on fire for more than
90 seconds.
[kenny] the smoke is still
getting cleared out,
but we're being told
that the judges are close to
handing out their scorecards.
[chris] all three former
battlebots participants,
derek young, jason bardis,
lisa winter,
scoring on an 11-point system,
up to five points
can be awarded
for damage,
three for aggression
and three for control.
You know kenny,
here at battlebots,
the lower bot usually wins,
and rotator proved
it was the low man
right out of the gate.
[kenny] yeah, rotator using
its ground scraping forks
to get underneath black dragon
and drive it
into the pulverizer,
then start going to work
with the undercutter
and that shot right there set
the brazilians up in flames.
[chris] and I feel like
I've seen this movie
somewhere before,
but black dragon managed
to put up one heck of a fight,
even though it was spewing
smoke and flames
for almost two minutes.
Now, this is probably
the crowning shot of the night
for black dragon
to get rotator on its side.
But victor soto did regain
control and he delivered
down the stretch.
[kenny] just an amazing
all-around performance
by the veteran here,
showing great control
by pinning black dragon,
then attacking
with the undercutter,
he managed to disable
black dragon's weapon
and really dominate
this fight.
[chris] rotator looking
to move to 2-0,
black dragon
as tough as they come,
let's send it over to faruq
with the decision.
The results
from the judges are in.
[audience cheering]
we have
a unanimous decision...
And your winner is...
Rotator.
[audience cheering]
[man] great play, guys.
[man] thank you.
Thank you.
[chris] victor.
-Hey.
Congratulations,
usually when you
set your opponent on fire,
you're like, "huh, okay,
this will be easy."
for almost two minutes,
that thing ran
while there were smoke,
how impressed were you?
Very impressive.
Black dragon
is a great machine,
very reliable.
I was hoping for a knockout,
but couldn't get there.
You know that was
to be expected.
Great machine.
But we were able to get
some control,
get underneath them
and I guess
we had some damage.
I couldn't see really clear
between the smoke and all.
All right.
So what is a 2-0 start
mean for you?
It's huge.
We've never been 2-0 before,
so this is fantastic.
Confidence is going through
the roof.
We're trusting the robot more.
We're learning more about it.
We're going to keep improving.
[chris] all right, victor.
Well, congratulations.
We'll see you next time.
-Thank you.
-Great fight.
Thank you.
[victor] thank you.
[chris] okay.
Let's keep the carnage going
and jump right into
fight number two
and the international
theme continues.
Canada and south korea
take center stage this time.
That's where our
next two teams, lucky
and blade hail from.
Let's start with
mark demers and that
flipper known as lucky.
In their first fight,
they went toe-to-toe
with a semifinalist
from last season, tantrum
and new driver matt olsen.
He looks like he may be
the real deal.
[kenny] yeah, there's a reason
he's known as one of the top
rc car drivers in the world.
This rookie came out
the first 30 seconds
of his battlebots career
and had a top tier opponent
on the ropes.
He actually could have let
tantrum get counted out,
but he kept the fight going
and showed some
serious competitive spirit.
I'm excited to see
what this kid does
in his second fight, chris.
[chris] and when it comes
to blade,
the bot known overseas
as the korean tombstone
did go three minutes
in a very tough matchup
against scorpios,
but they did not live up
to the hype, kenny.
[kenny] yeah,
captain cheog gyu hwang
needs to show us
something in this fight.
I've seen them dish out
tons of damage
in international matches.
Maybe it was jet lag,
maybe it was just being
under the battlebots lights
for the first time.
Either way, we need to see
that weapon spin up
and do some serious
damage tonight.
Somebody's getting
win number one tonight.
Faruq.
In the red square
from ottawa, canada,
here comes the canuck
with all the luck,
it's lucky.
[audience cheering]
[chris] team lucky,
almost looking like
the canadian flag kenny.
[kenny] and going against
the horizontal spinner
tonight.
How do they match up?
[chris] well, you can see
they've got that ar-500 armor
that goes all the way around,
lucky this time.
They've seen how powerful
blade has been overseas,
but lucky should be able
to get under them.
And if they can trap blade
in a short corner
and they spin up,
matt olsen could
have a field day.
[faruq] in the blue square
from seoul, south korea,
ready to mash your unit.
Give it up for blade.
[audience cheering]
[chris] such a cool looking
robot, and once again,
the driver is ju sangeun
on the right there.
She's actually
a professional violinist,
so she's used to performing
under pressure, kenny.
[kenny] well,
all eyes are on her,
because they need a win
here against scorpios,
she couldn't find space
to spin up,
tonight they're using
their longest bar,
it's three feet and 60 pounds
of aluminum.
With that extra reach,
they're hoping they can get
in one big early shot
and end this fight before
lucky can start the flipper.
Blade is a really
tough machine.
It's going to be
a lot of large hits.
We're hoping to deflect
blades blade.
If we're going to win, I think
we're going to have to win
within three or four hits,
hopefully get them
flipped over.
If it goes to the full
three minutes, I'm pretty
sure we're taking damage.
We're all in one right now,
so that really puts
a lot of pressure on us
to win that next match.
[man speaking]
[audience cheering]
[chris] let the
bot battle begin.
[kenny] lucky on the charge.
[loud thud]
[chris] oh, gosh.
Blade just snapped
its blade and left a piece
stuck at the side
of the battle box.
[kenny] it's throwing it off,
get that gyroscope in motion
and lucky...
[loud thud]
[chris] lucky flipping
blade into the screws,
oh, there's another...
[audience cheering]
[chris] you go to your room,
says lucky.
[kenny] doesn't get
better than that.
[chris] and look at this,
the spin around,
flipper trying to knock
the blade off,
but now,
just got to hang out up there.
That's it, it's just
going to sit and chill
as lucky picks up the victory.
[referee] it's a knock-out.
[kenny] what a knockout.
[chris] wow.
Kenny, impressive, impressive
run by lucky right there.
[kenny] yeah, absolutely,
and a great choice to go
with that ar armor,
it caused blade
to slam into the rail
and broke that three-foot
aluminum bar off
into the side
of the battle box.
-Look at that, crazy.
-[chris] yeah.
Blade on its heels after that,
a little flippage from lucky,
send it politely
to the top of the side rail
to be counted out.
Rookie driver, matt olsen,
with yet another
sensational performance,
as lucky moves to 1-1.
What are you feeling,
lucky, huh?
[laughing]
kenny, I love battlebots,
'show and tell',
it's my favorite day
of the school year.
It is.
I get to hold the prop here.
-Oh my gosh.
-Do not touch the top of it.
It is very sharp,
but this is the tip
of the blade
that broke off of blade.
-And stuck right
into the wall.
-[kenny] yes.
-[chris] that is incredible
force.
-[kenny] crazy. Very heavy.
If you didn't get your bi's
and tri's then you might
want to start lifting this.
No, I'm good
with just the air.
You're good. Okay.
[chris] coming up.
One of the most ferocious
drivers in the sport.
He's determined
to will his team back
into tournament contention.
Stop yelling at me,
daniel freitas in minotaur
facing the undefeated rookie,
dragon slayer.
That's up next on battlebots.
[audience cheering]
we are back
on battlebots and guess
who's back inside the box.
It's brazilian bazooka,
minotaur
in desperate need of a win
here tonight against rookie,
dragon slayer,
and let's start with
the boys from texas.
A group of young machinists
led by 22-year-old captain,
jordan neal.
Kenny, dragon slayer beat up
on respected veteran, duck
in its very first
battlebots fight ever.
[kenny] that's right.
And while dragon slayers
vertical disc may not pack
a nuclear punch,
it was able to rip the beak
right off of duck
in its debut.
But minotaur is in quite
a different class offensively,
so this should be
a good indicator for them
to where they stand here,
amongst all teams.
[chris] and when it comes
to minotaur,
this is one of the most
popular robots
in the entire world.
Led this year by captain,
junior souza, they sit at 0-1.
And even though that loss came
at the hands of one of the top
teams in the field, saw blaze,
these guys cannot afford
to take another l tonight,
especially against
the rookie robot.
[kenny] no doubt, they are
fired up and ready to go,
no one more so
than their driver,
daniel freitas,
his ferocity,
nearly brought this team
to a battlebots championship
in 2018.
But for minotaur
spiritual leader,
this season is about
something bigger than robots.
[daniel speaking]
[audience cheering]
[chris] kenny, it's hard
not to root for daniel
and these guys
on team minotaur.
[kenny] but he's here
doing what he loves and he
wants to win that nut.
All right,
let's get it going. Faruq.
In the red square
from rio de janeiro, brazil,
the most ball-headed bot,
the sport has ever seen,
it's minotaur.
[audience cheering]
[chris] daniel freitas,
the driver,
always has his game face on,
ready to lead minotaur
into battle.
That drum is so nasty, kenny.
[kenny] it sure is.
That is a 55-pound drum
and it's wider than we've seen
it in previous seasons.
We know daniel
will be aggressive,
but with dragon slayer's,
huge plow,
the key will be aggressively
attacking from the side.
[faruq] in the blue square
from denton, texas,
giving opponents
and khaleesi nightmares,
it's dragon slayer.
[audience cheering]
[chris] there is
dragon slayer.
Kenny, what do they have to do
to take down the raging bull?
[kenny] well, two things.
One, keep that plow
square with minotaur's drum
at all times
and two, get that weapon
up to full speed.
Jordan said their disc
wasn't functioning properly
against duck.
They're going
with a smaller disc tonight,
and they've also increased
the battery power
behind the weapon.
Let's see if those changes
pay off.
For this next fight,
we're juicing it up a little.
We're going from six-cell
to eight-cell in all systems.
Hopefully, that's going
to give us enough punch
we need to fight minotaur.
We switched our weapons.
We actually went down
a little bit.
We went with
our lighter weapon
in order to compensate
for that extra juice
we're given to it.
We're open for
a line of tip speed.
This weapon's got
a little more reach.
We switched our scoops,
they're a little more
heavily armored.
Honestly, it's not
the worst fight
we could possibly have,
but damn if it ain't scary,
we could leave with another
victory chip in our hands
or a smoking wreck.
Dragon slayer is a new bot.
They did pretty well
against duck.
They have a wedge
on the front,
so we have the old forks.
We're really hoping to get
underneath their wedge
and just make it gone.
We've got to avoid
the weapon as well,
because it can be a really
powerful and damage minotaur.
But we've got to go forward
and make sure that we hit them
strong as we can
to try to go for a knockout.
[audience cheering]
[robotic voice]
robots, activate.
[audience cheering]
[chris] minotaur's season
may rest on the shoulders
of that man right there,
daniel freitas
is locked and loaded.
The rookie, jordan neal,
looking to take his squad
to 2-0.
Dragon slayer, minotaur.
Next.
[chris] we are right back
into the action
here on battlebots,
where minotaur and the squad
from brazil
are rallied around
their outstanding driver,
daniel freitas,
taking on the rookie team
from texas, dragon slayer.
Minotaur needs a win
to avoid falling to 0-2.
[audience cheering]
[chris] let the bot battle
begin.
Here comes dragon slayer,
not afraid of minotaur
until you hear that drum
spinning... And two bots
go weapon on weapon.
Minotaur still humming.
Dragon slayer back pedaling.
Oh, oh, look at this.
Minotaur trying to send
dragon slayer into the
upper deck, didn't happen.
-[loud thud]
-there's a nice kiss.
-You drive this on your
own money.
-Okay.
[chris] and it looks like
minotaur has knocked
dragon slayer's weapon
out of commission
to start this fight.
But here's dragon
slayer pushing back.
Daniel freitas finds an angle.
Oh, starts chewing
away at those tires.
[kenny] yeah.
He eats tires for breakfast.
[chris] dragon slayer
still has its wedge
in play though, kenny.
[kenny] that's right
and jordan neal has to use
that big wedge
to see if he can break
minotaur's weapon.
[chris] minotaur says
good luck with that pal,
bending dragon slayer
chewing on the underbelly
on the bot from texas.
[kenny] dragon slayer
needs to self-right.
[chris] running around
in circles
and here come minotaur again
and it's dragon slayer down
for the count.
[kenny] yeah.
That might have been
the knockout shot.
Him on the backside.
[chris] oh, no.
-[referee] ten, nine...
-[chris] here comes
the count down.
Can dragon slayer
find a way to free itself?
[kenny] oh,
the celebration is starting.
[chris] that's going to be
curtains.
-It's a knockout.
-[audience cheering]
[chris] well, they may not
have been the toughest
opponent he's ever faced,
but daniel freitas just kept
minotaur's season alive.
[audience cheering]
[daniel screaming]
yeah!
Yes!
[chris] kenny, minotaur
just on it from the get go
with that drum spinner.
[kenny] went right
at that primary weapon,
then started attacking
the tires.
They attacked
from the back, they were
hitting dragon slayer
anywhere they could.
[chris] you know,
the relentless driving
we've come to expect
from daniel freitas,
who was on full display
yet again.
He just never let up.
[kenny] no, he didn't.
It was his aggressive style
that he always uses,
just going out there
trying to take out that bot
from the get go.
They wanted the knockout
and they got it.
[audience cheering]
-[chris] junior.
-Me?
Yes, you,
congratulations on your
first win as team captain.
Thank you.
Hey, your driver,
daniel freitas is an animal.
Yeah. Bring him in here, huh?
[audience cheering]
what is it like
for you to watch him do his
thing as a driver out there?
[junior] we hear daniel,
you know,
we have a tough few days.
This guy here,
he deserves it, so.
[indistinct whispering]
[audience cheering]
minotaur! Minotaur! Minotaur!
[chris] daniel,
how does it feel to be here
with your second family
at battlebots?
Uh, I had
very difficult weeks.
I lost my mom.
[audience cheering
and applauding]
but we are back here
and we do lot better for...
Tonight.
[audience cheering]
[chris] congratulations
to team minotaur.
Daniel, thank you
very much for sharing
your emotions with us.
-Thank you, guys.
-Thank you, thank you.
[audience cheering]
[chris] well, you heard,
daniel just lost his mom
and his grandmother recently.
And I do think that for a lot
of athletes and competitors
in whatever field you are in,
if you come back to a place
where you know you are in love
like battlebots,
it's not going to chase
the pain away entirely.
Absolutely.
But you said it best,
I mean, that is like
his second family.
It's got to feel good,
you know, after everything
that he's dealt with
to go out there
and do what he loves
and to get a win
for him and his team.
-He's one of the best
out there.
-Yeah.
And you saw why tonight.
Congratulations
to daniel freitas
and his entire work family
here at battlebots.
[chris] back to the games
we play.
And when we return,
it's the king of staten island
versus the king
of the himalayas.
As evan arias and pain train
rolls into the box
against the dreaded yeti.
That's next on battlebots.
[audience cheering]
we are back
on battlebots and up next
the meeting of a pair
of 0-1 teams that both
lost by knockouts
their first time out.
Let's start with
the veteran team yeti,
led by gibson and karlberg,
and we talked with greg gibson
earlier today.
He said, listen,
I have to admit
I was nervous last month.
It was the first time
I was in the box in two years.
He said, guess what?
I'm going to let it roll
and we might see the old yeti,
I think,
a little bit more tonight.
[kenny] I think so.
Listen, he said,
he's always nervous
for that first fight.
He said he's a complete wreck
and again, this yeti
is very different from the bot
we saw two years ago.
It's much smaller.
But both captains know
when it comes
to making the tournament,
tonight is a do
or die situation.
All right, so with pain train,
they're captained
by evan arias,
they had a rough rookie season
in 2020,
high expectations,
they end up getting ko'd
in their first fight.
They got a start
to turn it around
a little bit.
[kenny] yeah, that's right.
We talked about it.
But evan
is one of the top drivers
in the world,
when it comes
to lower weight classes,
one of his robots
actually just got put in
the beetleweight hall of fame.
He really wants to prove that
he belongs in the big leagues
and no better way to do that
than by taking down
a legendary bot, like yeti.
Somebody's getting
a win number one.
Will it be pain train
or will it be yeti?
Let's find out. Faruq.
[audience cheering]
in the red square
from san luis obispo,
california,
this ice monster
will leave you
shaking in your snow boots.
It's yeti.
[audience cheering]
[chris] a fan favorite, yeti,
about 80% of its size
from 2019
went on the old diet.
Is that [indistinct] at all,
do you think?
[kenny] you know,
greg is still getting
used to handling
this more compact version
of yeti.
This fight is massive drum
versus massive drum, though.
And yeti's got
the smaller one,
so contrary to their
typical game plan,
they want to be cautious
and avoid going
weapon to weapon here.
[audience cheering]
in the blue square
from staten island, new york,
known as thomas, the train's
terrifying older brother,
its pain train.
[audience cheering]
[chris] pain train knocked out
by deep-6 in its season debut,
there's evan arias,
wearing the shades,
waving to the crowd.
That weapon looks great, man.
We just want to see it
connect occasionally.
[kenny] yeah, well,
it was working perfectly
in the test box earlier today,
and at 75 pounds,
pain train's drum
is more than 30, yes,
30 pounds heavier than yeti's.
Because of that, evans says
he does want to attack
head on here,
so let's see
if it can hold up tonight.
The yeti's been around
for a little bit.
I was actually a fan
of it growing up.
It has this nice seven-tooth
that I'm looking to rip
right off the weapon
and I'm just going
to attack them, head on,
rip off their forks
and have a few wheels
to have fun with.
I'm more than confident
that I'm going to have
yeti on the heels today.
Pain train has no brakes.
I'm going to enjoy some
yeti spaghetti tonight.
I can't win this fight
head to head.
I have to keep my cool.
I have to drive properly
and keep aiming
for their sides and back.
Their drum is heavier
than ours.
It probably spins faster.
If I just throw caution
to the wind and go at them,
we're going to lose this fight
and that's probably going
to be it for the season.
[audience cheering]
[chris] let the bot battle
begin.
Oh, oh, pain train passed
out of the game, but just
runs right into the rails.
[kenny] yeah.
He's trying to line it up.
A love tap there.
[loud thud]
more than a a love tap there.
[kenny] pain train doing
a great job
of staying squared up to yeti.
[chris] nice shot
by pain train.
Yeti, though
not taking the pain,
looking for the right angle.
Sniffing around
those tires now.
Dragging it out there.
[kenny] oh, nice little flip.
Greg gibson driving
a brilliant match so far,
showing a lot of patience
in this opening stretch.
[chris] big shot.
It's a massive drum
on drum action.
Yeti working up a sweat now.
[kenny] oh,
this is a much better fight
from both yeti
and pain train already.
[chris] oh, big shot
by pain train, knocks yeti...
[indistinct commentary]
[chris] oh, no, no a big part
of pain train has come off.
[kenny] yeti is about
to take over,
it looks like, chris.
[chris] oh, no, pain train
should motor on nicely.
[kenny] it's exposed on
the left side though.
[chris] oh,
that's got to hurt.
[kenny] uh-oh.
[chris] yeti flipping
pain train
like a pancake here.
Can it hang on?
Does pain train
have any control.
Yeti's trying to sniff it out.
Oh, he's grinding
it into the rails.
[kenny] un-oh, that's
going to be it.
I don't see
controlled movement.
[chris] you saw
a lot of wobbling right now
and pain train
still might be...
[kenny] oh, flip.
[chris] that's it.
[loud thud]
[indistinct commentary]
[audience cheering]
[chris] greg's making up
for that first fight
right now my goodness.
[kenny] yeah,
there's battery spilled out,
the top armor is off
and the countdown has started
and yeti.
Evan arias,
all he can do is smile,
because he has been done in
by a big time bot.
[referee] knock-out.
[audience cheering]
[chris] kenny, you get
two high energy
drum spinners like this,
you'd never know
what could happen.
[kenny] oh, my goodness,
this was an awesome fight.
Both robots
really went for it,
a little bit cautious
in the beginning,
and then all of a sudden
they just started
trading blows back and forth.
[chris] I got to tell you,
pain train, you know,
we talked about
at the beginning of this fight
that durability was going
to be an issue for them
and things were going
just fine.
They were exchanging
blow for blow with yeti,
and then they ended up
losing the top armor
and things changed.
[kenny] yeah, listen,
there were some serious energy
in that battle box.
Both bots landed
some great shots,
but in the end,
it really did come down
to the durability,
you see the shots from yeti
just kind of tearing apart
pain train little by little,
bot parts everywhere.
It was a very
surgical approach
from greg gibson
for the most part.
[chris] and then
finishing it up,
knocking batteries
on the battle box floor
and we'll call it a night.
[audience cheering]
[chris] greg and christian,
that's the way that
that machine
is supposed to run, right?
Yeah. It worked out
a lot better than last time.
[chris] uh-huh.
Greg, could you
kind of smell it
once pain train
lost its top armor
where you're like,
oh, this is going to be tasty?
Sort of.
The thing is their drum
is really, really nasty.
It was still spinning.
So as long as that
thing's going, it's scary.
Greg, it seemed like
you were a cautious early on,
and then it seemed
like the old yeti
kind of revealed itself.
Was that the case?
Well, I had kind of
promised the team I was going
to try to drive smart
and not go weapon to weapon
that usually lasts
about 20 seconds.
We'll have to look back
to see if I made it
to a full 20
and then we started
going drum to drum.
Well, congratulations
on getting that first win.
Thanks very much, guys.
[audience cheering]
[chris] kenny, you heard it
out of the mouth
of greg gibson,
sometimes you just
got to resort back
to what you know best, huh?
Yeah, absolutely.
You can't get too far
from who you are.
But make no mistake,
the first 60 seconds
of that fight
was maybe the most
strategic driving
we've ever seen from greg
and it paid off
for a much needed victory.
[chris] after the break,
the devil from the deep
clashes with a deadly
bird of prey.
It's kraken versus hijinx.
And don't forget about
the main event of the evening,
where the legendary lock-jaw
will go head to head
with speed demon hypershock.
It's the o.G. Donald hutson
versus consummate showman
will bales,
that's later tonight
on battlebots.
[audience cheering]
[chris] and welcome back
to las vegas,
where the battlebots
championship qualifiers
roll on.
At the top
of the marquee tonight,
boy, do we have
a fun matchup for you?
The king of flash, will bales,
will roll hypershock
into the arena
to face the legendary
donald hutson and lock-jaw.
Our cameras caught
the two teams sizing
each other up a bit earlier.
How old were you
when I first
started competing?
You were,
I guess you did '95, right?
-'96.
-'96, I was 4.
[laughing]
[chris] it's young hotshot
versus grizzled veteran
in tonight's main event,
so get your popcorn ready
for what is sure to be
an action packed fight.
But right now, it's a matchup
between a pair of robots,
who both made it to the round
of 32 a season ago.
But now,
both find themselves
in an 0-1 hole.
Kraken versus hijinx.
Let's start with kraken
engineered by matt spurk,
and you just cannot
kill this thing.
Go ask rotator,
because kraken
lasted the distance,
even though it lost its teeth,
basically the top of its head,
but not its ability to drive
and it shows just
how tough kraken is.
[kenny] no doubt about it.
That really
is their superpower,
its unkillable,
and they do have
a lot of crushing force
as well.
We didn't really see that
in their first fight,
but they're going
to try to use it here.
In the meantime,
jen herchenroeder,
who's the captain of hijinx,
they had
such high expectations
coming into this season.
They spent the entire off
season fixing what went wrong
in 2020
and all of a sudden,
they got popped
right in the grill
by mammoth first time out,
a little bit
of a jarring situation
for hijinx.
[kenny] for jen,
she's the ultimate optimist.
She was really confident that
she was going to come back
and bring
the best bot possible.
The winner here,
I'm not going to say
they're sitting pretty,
but they're going to be
in the thick of the race
to the round of 32.
The loser is going
to fall to 0-2
and is going to need
some serious help
to get to the postseason.
Faruq?
[audience cheering]
in the red square
from titusville, florida,
he's got more bite
than a vampire
at a net convention.
It's kraken.
[audience cheering]
[chris] kraken and matt spurk
has brought his entire family
with him.
[kenny] well, you can't even
tell that dragon head got
screwed up last time out.
[chris] yeah,
they had to scrap the frame
from the first fight,
it was damaged so badly,
and this frame
is actually designed
for vertical,
not horizontal spinners,
so they're already a little
behind the eight ball.
But if matt spurk
can corner hijinx
and prevent it
from spinning up,
kraken is more than capable
of winning this fight.
In the blue square
from oakland, california,
the pink and yellow
that turns you black and blue.
It's hijinx.
[audience cheering]
[chris] hijinx's always
so pretty.
The paint job is sensational,
the engineering
needs a little working
between fights one and two.
We'll see
what jen herchenroeder
and her right hand man,
orion beach
have dialed up tonight.
[kenny] well, what adjustment
jen made to this fight
was to add s7
tool steel teeth
to that 68-pound bar.
S7 is a sharper metal.
It's better for cutting.
They know kraken is too tough
to bludgeoned to death,
but if they could cut through
the sea monsters head,
they might actually be able
to get the knockout.
[audience cheering]
the overall strategy
with kraken
is always the same.
Close the distance on them
as fast as possible,
light them up
and then just crush them.
They've got such a long bar
and it takes a long time
to get up to really
deadly speed.
And I think
if we can get on them
and just stay on them,
I think we'll be okay.
But if we have to back off
or we get separated too much,
then they're really going
to tear us up pretty bad.
Matt spurk
is a fantastic builder
and made regular improvements.
Kraken is fully able
to get their teeth
around one of our wings
and controlled the fight.
So we're going to do
everything we can
to stay out of the mouth
and to knock the teeth out
as fast as we can.
For both teams, this,
this is a mandatory win,
something to be said
for strength schedule,
you can have
really good fights
against really good robots,
but I do think it's a much
larger uphill struggle
to get into the round of 32
if you don't have
at least two wins.
[robotic voice]
robots activate.
[audience cheering]
[chris] hijinx has its game
face off, so too does kraken,
assisted by his little narwhal
got torn to shreds
in its last fight.
[robotic voice]
red team, ready?
[ethan hits the button]
[chris] young ethan
spurk hitting the button
right there.
[robotic voice]
blue team, ready?
[jen hits the button]
[audience cheering]
[chris] let the bot battle
begin.
Kraken on these...
Oh, big shot there by hijinx,
but kraken took it.
[kenny] yeah,
that's a great start
by kraken,
trying to jam up that weapon
and they're going
to stay right on hijinx.
[chris] trying to send them
into the screws.
[kenny] hijinx
is already upside down.
Kraken looking
to take advantage.
[chris] hijinx wiggles free,
now trying to create
some space to spin.
Oh!
Trying to chip away
those teeth,
including the two big ones
in the front.
[kenny] my goodness,
hijinx is still very dangerous
in this helicopter
configuration.
[chris] hijinx not moving
very well now, though,
and matt spurk
staying aggressive,
as he always does.
[kenny] kraken trying
to bite down and then drag
hijinx around the arena.
[matt] he's dead.
He's dead.
Count, count, he's dead.
[chris] matt spurk calling
for the quick count out.
[referee] you have control?
Do you have control?
[chris] hijinx's weapon
is spinning,
but the big question,
can the robot move?
[kenny] yes. It can.
-Whoa!
-[chris] whoa!
Hijinx chopping away
at the mouth of kraken saying,
"get off you ugly,
hideous beast".
[kenny] it's amazing,
now kraken just go
right in there,
creeping and jam up
that weapon like that,
that's just ridiculous.
[chris] hijinx still trying
to find its way
in this inverted position,
though, kenny.
[kenny] yeah, keep in mind,
the directional controls on
that robot
are actually backwards
for driver orion beach now.
[chris] under 90 to go.
Kraken working hijinx
into the screws.
[kenny] trying to get it under
the upper deck and he does.
[chris] could this be
the knockout
that kraken wanted.
Hijinx has an opening
and is trying to work its
way down to field level.
Now, are you kidding me?
Hijinx starts spinning
and get down on the surface
and it does.
[kenny] brilliant move
by orion beach,
using hijinx's spinner
to create momentum there.
[chris] under a minute to go
and hijinx is throwing
its weapon
into kraken's teeth.
Both of these bots looking
to make one final push
before the closing bell.
[kenny] this has been
a brutal grinding fight.
-[loud thud]
-[chris] both teams...
Big hit by hijinx.
[kenny] kraken's going
to have to send hijinx
his dental bill.
[chris] kraken has
way less teeth
than when it started.
[kenny] oh, there goes
the big one.
[chris] hijinx's leaving
a strong last impression,
and I'm not even so sure
kraken is moving.
[referee] you got
to show me...
I have to count now.
[kenny] no,
I don't think it is.
[chris] and hijinx
still moving.
Oh, it's caught up.
How is kraken still moving?
[kenny] both bots gasping
for air as the final seconds
tick away.
Kraken is crab walking.
Hijinx spun up to try
to land one more shot.
[jen] one more, one more,
one more.
[chris] but it looks like
this one is going to go
to the judge's scorecards.
[kenny] wow!
[chris] boy, was there
a lot going on in this one,
kenny.
[kenny] just ridiculous
kraken going right at hijinx.
Hijinx with a big shot
right off the bat,
kraken trying to control.
They just were never able
to get that good
fight down on hijinx.
[chris] now,
I got to give orion beach
a whole lot of credit
for keeping hijinx active
and away from
that bite of kraken,
all while driving inverted.
[kenny] no doubt,
especially when you consider
that his drive controls
were reversed
once hijinx got flipped.
Great job by orion.
[chris] man, this was
a very close fight.
So how do you think the judges
will break this one down?
[kenny] this is a tough call.
To me, kraken was
the more aggressive robot.
It should have the edge there,
and matt spurk will win
some control points
for tossing hijinx
onto the upper deck.
But in the end,
this could very well come down
to the damage column.
Hijinx landed a bunch
of heavy shots,
beat up on kraken
and ripped one of
its teeth out
advantage hijinx
in that category,
going to be a fascinating
decision either way.
[chris] here's faruq
with the results.
The results
from the judges are in.
The winner
by unanimous decision is...
Hijinx.
[audience cheering]
jen herchenroeder,
is it fair to say that hijinx
probably doesn't win
a fight like this
a season ago?
I think that is probably true.
We've done everything we can
to improve literally
everything on the robot.
We made one mistake.
We made one big mistake
in the pits before our
first fight, we fixed it.
It'll never happen again,
and you're going to see more
of that from here on out.
That was a back
and forth fight, jen.
Yeah.
At one point,
it seemed like you were stuck
there on the upper deck.
Did that worry you?
No.
We consider that it was
a high probability
we'd be put upside down
at some point
and we can drive inverted.
It's not a problem,
but just to make it
a little bit easier on orion,
I added some slippery uhmw
to the top of the head
to help us scoot off
in the case we had
one wheel on,
one wheel off some kind
of balance and he did
a great job.
He sure did.
Jen, congratulations.
Hijinx evens its record
at 1-1 on the season.
[audience cheering]
[chris] so hijinx pulls
out the decision victory,
and we're going
to put the judges
scorecards up on the screen
for you here.
Kenny, break it
all down for us.
[kenny] yeah, the judges
had it 6-5 across
the board for hijinx.
Looks like kraken did end up
winning the aggression
and control categories,
but wow, the numbers that tell
the story are
in the damaged department.
You see there on jason
and derek's cards,
both of them scoring damage
4-1 in favor of hijinx.
Tough to win a fight
if you don't come out on top
in the most heavily
weighted category.
[chris] destroy or disable
your opponent,
that is the mission.
So hijinx moves to 1-1,
while fan favorite kraken
now faces the challenge
of climbing out
of an 0-2 hole.
Coming up,
a showdown between
two 20-year-olds,
and I'm not talking
about a tik-tok battle.
Jason vasquez
and his control bot defender
square off
with ethan kurtz
and the highly destructive
drum spinner of riptide.
That's next on battlebots.
[audience cheering]
we continue on here
on battlebots and up next,
let's take a closer look
at tonight's marquee matchup.
It's hypershock
versus lock-jaw,
a main event featuring speed,
spinners and two
of the biggest stars
in this sport.
[faruq] it's hypershock.
In years past,
we had great weapons,
we have great tech,
we had good style
and we had good driving.
[kenny] that was a perfect
bot crush chris, I've never
seen anyone get out of this.
But for whatever reason,
it never quite came together.
[chris] I don't think
there's anything hypershock
can do kenny.
[will] this year,
we made a concerted effort
to say, okay,
no more gimmicks,
no more stupid little tricks,
no more self-righter.
And in our fight
against slamo,
basically everything
went right.
[kenny] oh!
[chris] with that combination
of speed and power slamo,
doesn't stand a chance.
[kenny] oh, what a shot
by will bales.
We felt good,
the robot drove well,
the weapon worked great,
and we've got it nailed.
[referee] that's a knock-out.
[kenny] hypershock
is back chris.
Oh, man.
[faruq] it's macho.
[donald] I have won
two championships
and two's not enough.
[chris] oh, no mercy
from lock-jaw.
These qualifying matches
are meant to kind of seat us
position us in a way to say
we have a good chance
at a run for the nut.
[chris] oh, what a shot.
The last fight I had with
copperhead was a complete,
chaotic mess.
[chris] the left fork
is bent backwards.
The left front wheel
is hanging out for dear life
and lock-jaw is behind
the eight ball now.
But I went all three minutes
with that beating.
So that gave me just a little
bit of confidence about maybe
how I go into the next one.
[chris] whoa!
Lock-jaw is going
right at him.
Lock-jaw looks tough
as nails this year.
They're hard to beat.
Donald has been here
since the beginning.
[chris] donald hutson,
the legend.
And he's a very good driver.
[chris] unbelievable,
the driving by donald hutson.
We have a good chance to win
if we can avoid
the hard impacts.
That's pretty beefy weapon.
[chris] hypershock coated...
We have 25% more weapon mass
than we did before.
We have 40% more weapon
energy than before.
If we can get the weapon
to connect with lock-jaw,
we're going to see some
wheels come off.
We're going to see some
extra holes in lock-jaw
that they didn't have
at the beginning.
I want to mangle some metal.
[chris] will bales
and his best friend chaos
have entered the battle box.
It's going to be
a lot of back
and forth going on.
I'm relentless.
I'm not going to let up.
I need to win this match,
so here I come, will.
[chris] oh, unbelievable.
That one is going
to be fun, kenny.
Now, when donald says
he's won two championships,
he's referring to the super
heavyweight titles
he won with his iconic
robot dissector.
He, of course,
is still looking
for that elusive giant nut
here in the modern era.
But before we get you
to that main event,
we got one more
matchup for you,
featuring two
of this season's top rookies
in the field,
defender and riptide.
And let's start with riptide,
captained by a college
kid out of los angeles.
Ethan kurtz, he was
so excited just to be
involved in battlebots.
Then, when he won
his first match
against huge no less
by a knockout
in less than a minute,
the dude was basically
running around here
going crazy.
He couldn't catch his breath,
guy's having the time
of his life.
[kenny] yeah,
amazing performance
in that first fight.
That weapon is devastating,
so he's on his way.
Taking on another college kid
from the los angeles area,
but the last name you
certainly know oh, so well.
Jason vasquez,
the younger brother
of manny vasquez,
defender lost its opener,
knocked out by ribot.
Jason said, listen,
we worked on it.
My brother even came over
and helped out a little bit
and he certainly hasn't lost
any confidence.
[kenny] no, not at all.
He's been here before.
He has a lot of experience,
of course, with whiplash,
and he believes he has
his robot dialed in.
He loves this matchup
against riptide as well.
Rookie versus rookie.
Should be a fun one. Faruq?
[audience cheering]
in the red square,
he's all plugged in
and turned up to 11,
here to make his opponents
take the stairway to heaven
like a hot guitar
solo on your face,
he'll be wailing, tear you up
like a master.
Call him shreddy van halen.
Crank it up for defender.
[audience cheering]
[chris] all right, there's
jason in front with his mom
and pop and also rob,
guy that you bring
in to help out,
he's great behind
the scenes guy here,
pushing in the bot.
[kenny] rob mastic, of course,
used to be on fight force.
Now they've gone from
four forks to two
on front of defender.
Jason realized those were just
going to get shredded against
a vertical spinner
like riptide.
Now to win, he's going
to have to smother
wild driver ethan kurtz,
which is no easy task.
In the blue square,
when this riptide takes over
the battle box,
no lifeguard can save you.
Not even hasselhoff.
No pam anderson
or carmen electra running
in slow motion,
just you getting devoured
by a murderous ocean,
it's riptide.
[audience cheering]
[chris] team riptide made up
of a bunch of college
and high school kids,
and ethan kurtz calls
just a bunch of idiots.
But there's ethan in front.
He's always having fun.
[kenny] yeah, just kind
of soaking it all in.
I thought this bot did
a great job against huge.
[chris] yeah.
It doesn't get much better
than that in its first fight.
It's a powerful bot,
and I think
an underrated aspect
is its wide base
and low center of mass.
This makes turning easier,
which is going to be crucial
against an opponent
that they want to avoid
approaching face first.
Riptide's got a huge weapon,
and I mean,
that's something
to always be concerned about.
Ribot, they destroyed
our switches
and we realized from that
that our electronics
placement could
have been better.
By moving around some
of the electronics,
we really don't think
they're going to be able
to kill our drive.
So if we could drive that
full three minutes and stay
aggressive and persistent,
I think we could definitely
take the judge's decision,
if not a knockout.
Our strategy for defender's
to approach them
at a slight angle
and try to bite
into their ports
or whatever we can
and get our weapon bar dig
into them.
We need one hit on defender
to win the fight.
As soon as we get one hit,
which pound them
and pound them
and pound them and it's over.
We showed last fight
that we had the power
to knock anyone out.
Doesn't matter who you are,
even if you're huge,
we knock you out.
So now we just have
to sustain that.
[robotic voice]
robots activate.
[audience cheering]
[chris] once again,
both of these captains
are only 20 years old.
We are looking at the future
of this sport folks.
Can riptide start
their battle box career 2-0?
Or will jason vasquez
get his first win as
captain of defender?
Find out when battlebots
continues.
[audience cheering]
[chris] welcome back
to battlebots,
where two rookie teams
are inside the box
and ready to tear each other
into pieces.
Its defender versus
riptide, let's go.
[audience cheering]
[chris] let the bot battle
begin.
Oh, defender with a nice pop
to riptide and...
Running side.
[kenny] oh!
[chris] ripped off
another piece
and then just...
Riptide cannot get over
and can get defender
get back off its butt?
[kenny] defender went
right at it, oh...
The primary weapon of riptide.
[chris] now,
this is amazing kenny.
Riptide popped itself back
over by hitting the rails,
but landed perfectly
on its side.
[man] let's go.
[chris] let's see
if defender lends a helping
hand or just takes the win.
[kenny] and there's
your answer.
Jason vasquez tips
riptide onto his head.
He wants to keep
the fight going.
Let's see if riptide can
right itself again here.
[chris] see if defender
can get a hold of him
that's been able
to get that grabber
going quite yet.
[kenny] anytime riptide's
trying to bounce itself
off of the...
Oh!
Holy smokes.
[chris] that's one way
to do it.
And now he's trying
to back off
and here comes defender.
[kenny] oh, boy!
[chris] get right on
and that was awesome.
[kenny] that was
tremendous driving
from both drivers there.
[chris] remember,
these are a couple
of college kids
out of los angeles,
not a lot of stick time
for either on these bots.
[kenny] nice driving
by jason vasquez,
keeping the pressure
on riptide.
[chris] oh, nice work on
pulverizer, just a neck...
Defender.
[kenny] defender has
been the lower bot
so far, chris,
able to get underneath
riptide.
[chris] and it looks like
riptide's primary weapon
may be slowing
down now, kenny.
[kenny] yeah.
They are not able
to get it up to full speed.
I think they damage it
on that moon shot
onto the upper deck.
[chris] here's defender
giving riptide
a nice little tour
of the battle box,
now with no fear
that dangerous
egg beater weapon at all.
[kenny] let's see
if riptide can find a way
to even the score cards
here, chris.
Defender looks like it may
be dealing with a drive issue.
[chris] big question,
can these bots hang on
and make it
to the closing bell?
Get on him, get on him...
[kenny] and it looks
like riptide starting
to smoke right now, chris.
[chris] absolutely, it is.
Primary weapon
not working on either robot.
It is a driving competition.
Just about 20 seconds
left to go.
Defender with a pin
in the corner.
[kenny] trying to get
a lift going,
not quite able to do it.
[chris] have to let riptide go
and does.
Smart play by jason vasquez,
leaning on riptide
like a boxer there,
as defender is now just crab
walking around the box.
[audience cheering]
[chris] and there
is the closing bell,
which means
we will be going
to the scorecards.
The judges are earning
their paychecks tonight.
Kenny, riptide has
a scary weapon,
but jason vasquez
showed no fear.
He came out in all
out attack mode.
[kenny] yeah, defender went
right at that primary weapon
and had team riptide on
the ropes early.
But how about this move,
riptide launching themselves
15 feet into the air
and onto the upper deck?
That's one way to self-right.
I mean, look how
high they were.
That was insane.
Craziness.
[chris] both teams weapons
eventually went down,
but as the control
bot, defender
was better set up
to take advantage.
[kenny] exactly. Defender
stayed aggressive,
it was the lower bot
in this match,
which allowed it
to get underneath riptide
and control the action,
that should pay dividends
on the scorecards.
[chris] here's our man, faruq,
with the results.
The results from
the judges are in.
The winner by unanimous
decision is...
Defender.
[audience cheering]
[chris] all right, jason.
I don't know what was tougher,
getting that first win
as a captain or rob masek hug?
Are you, did he break
a rib there?
You okay?
Yeah, no, I'm really excited
about that.
I was pretty concerned
after knocking them back down,
but I just wanted the fight
to keep going.
But I mean, I'm happy I won.
It was a pretty good,
close fight, so.
Your first win here
at battlebots, man,
how does that feel?
It feels really good.
It feels so weird,
I feel like I've won
a thousand times at whiplash.
But I guess this
is the real deal,
this nobody could say
I didn't win,
so I'm pretty happy with that.
Is your brother around there
or did you just have to go
brag in his face now
that you got one?
Oh, no.
No, no, there are no hard
feelings between us.
He's... He's kind
of in the shadows
around here just kind
of helping me out,
giving me good vibes
before the fight, so.
Good deal.
Well, congratulations
on getting your first win
as a team captain.
-That's awesome, dude.
-[jason] thank you.
[audience cheering]
you know,
it's so interesting
jason vasquez has
been a part of a team
that made it all the way
to the final a year ago,
but, man, when you move up
a chair and it's your bot,
you're making the decisions,
just getting
that first victory,
it's got to feel great.
[kenny] it's totally
different.
Listen, both these teams
were young,
but, you know, to captain up
your first squad is not easy.
There's so many more
responsibilities.
I thought he did a great job,
by not only doing that,
but also driving as well.
Yeah, both these teams are
certainly the future
of battlebots and right now,
they are each 1-1.
All right, stay tuned
because coming up,
we've got the battle
of the beaches,
as miami's own
hypershock tries
to kick sand in the face
of san diego's lock-jaw.
It's the main event,
when we come back
on battlebots.
[donald] I've been fighting
robots close to 25 years.
Everybody always looks
at battlebots,
it's like, "oh, it's cool,
you're on the tv show."
it takes a little time
for them to get to,
you know,
how'd you get into it?
I tell them all
the same thing,
I started out building
remote control planes
and gliders just
like every other kid
that was a little different.
But really, we're just hungry
or more complicated things
to work on than regular kids.
Finding something
you're passionate about
is important for your success.
And the only way to do
that is introduce yourself
to new technologies.
And I think battlebots
does that.
Thing about battlebots,
it's been good for me
and my career all the way
from day-one of just building
garage robots,
I now have my
own company building
sophisticated drones,
because what I was doing
in my spare time
just rolled into it.
That's what I think is great.
All the skills you learn here,
including losing and winning,
are keys to your success
in the outside world.
[audience cheering]
[chris] we are back on
battlebots, and boy,
do we have a good one cooking
for you right now.
Let's start with lock-jaw,
which is 0-1 on the season,
it lost a decision
to copperhead
in a fight that lock-jaw
captain donald hutson said,
we got thrown
all over the box.
I mean,
they really took it to us.
How does he rebound tonight?
Well, when we talked to him,
he said,
you know,
this really had nothing to do
with the bot itself.
It came down to me making
mistakes out there.
Copperhead
just fought better,
he says, I just need to go out
there and outdrive will bales.
Now taking on one
of the most popular robots
around there,
hypershock,
you just mentioned
about will bales.
I talked to will before
the fight,
and he said, listen,
donald is one of the reasons
I got into this.
I got a happy
meal lock-jaw toy,
when I was a little kid,
and he is certainly happy
with the way that hypershock
has run so far this season.
[kenny] yeah, that's right
and it's amazing.
These guys haven't
fought each other,
but he feels he has
a speed advantage here
against lock-jaw.
Lock-jaw might have
a better turning radius.
They can turn
a little bit better.
I'm fascinated
with this fight.
Two very similar
platforms here. Can't wait.
Are you telling
me that will bale's robot
can improve to 2-0.
Don't tell will, he's going
to get all crazy on us now.
Here we go.
It's the first ever meeting
between hypershock
and lock-jaw.
Faruq, take it away.
[audience cheering]
[faruq] ladies and gentlemen,
are you ready?
[audience cheering]
it's time for the main event.
[faruq] in the red square,
matching raw combat power
with some flair
and some grace.
Call this robot rupaul
because, honey,
he'll beat your face,
he'll drag you for filth,
but he ain't wearing mascara
serving you carnage,
unstoppability,
nightmares and terror,
sashay shante.
It's hypershock.
[audience cheering]
[chris] hypershock with
a knock-out of slamo
in its season debut,
there's will bales,
leading the troops out.
Oh, there's the will bales,
that is just freaky.
[kenny] that's great.
But as will said, they've
removed the self-righter
and the way they save there,
they put into the weapons,
so those are thicker,
more powerful s7 tool
steel blades sharp enough
to cut,
powerful enough to kill.
[faruq] in the blue square,
a mandibular murderer
is running loose
on the streets,
jack the ripper,
ted bundy and dahmer agree
you need the jaws of life
to escape death
from its teeth.
You don't mess with lock-jaw
if you don't have the key.
It's lock-jaw.
[audience cheering]
[chris] donald hutson,
one of the most popular
drivers out there,
but he is always pointing
to his machine
at his crew for the credit.
[kenny] yeah, very humble guy,
excellent driver.
And donald knows hypershock
doesn't have a self-righter
any more,
so he wants to pin them
into a wall
and then flip wheel
on his back now,
lock-jaw doesn't
have his self-righter either,
but it can drive
fully inverted,
so a little more versatile.
[audience cheering]
[chris] for more on this
esthetically pleasing matchup,
we bring in our bot whisperer,
pete, who has more
on will bale's bot.
[pete] so having
a conversation
with will before this fight,
they've been studying
for this one pretty intensely.
They know donald
is a great driver,
but one of the things
they've noticed is that
lock-jaw tends to oversteer.
So what we are going
to probably see
from hypershock
is quite a lot of drifting
with these tires,
as they spin around
the outside of lock-jaw,
circling in like a thresher
shark coming in on its prey
to come hidden from the side.
[chris] you have
a favorite in this one?
[pete] hypershock.
[chris] oh, okay.
The bot whisperer is smoking.
We'll keep it quiet,
we won't tell donald.
[audience cheering]
[robotic voice]
robots, activate.
[audience cheering]
[robotic voice]
red team, ready?
[audience cheering]
[robotic voice]
blue team, ready?
[audience cheering]
[chris] let the bot battle
begin.
Will bales,
a little bit bigger bot trying
to take it to lock-jaw.
[kenny] oh, yeah,
some serious grinding.
[chris] oh, nice.
-[kenny] oh, nice hit there
by lock-jaw.
-[chris] yeah.
Will bales' hypershock
got little airtime there
and are those wheels chewed up
a little bit?
They are.
[kenny] yeah.
That front left wheel of
hypershock's...
Oh!
[chris] that's great
hit by hypershock.
[kenny] yeah. And hypershock
going in for more.
[chris]
I'm impressed by hypershock.
Even with a bummed wheel...
[kenny] uh-oh.
[chris] ...A few of 'em,
kenny...
Whoa!
That was hypershock's
wheel again.
Lock-jaw...
[kenny] yeah.
[loud thud]
[audience cheering]
[chris] except
without a fist each.
Whoa!
Nice work by hypershock there.
Lock-jaw in the corner
having drive trouble.
Hypershock, oh,
are you kidding me?
And that's going to be it.
What a fight.
He knocked him
out of the arena.
-[chris]
will bales is shocked,
-...Eight, seven, six,
[chris]
...Because the countdown
has started.
That is indeed going
to be a knock-out in favor
of hypershock.
[audience cheering]
[chris] an unbelievable
first ever meeting between
hypershock and lock-jaw.
Kenny, this was
non-stop action.
[kenny] yeah, it really was,
I mean, a ton of
weapon on weapon hits,
both these guys really
going for it.
You see the wheels
come off pretty early
there for hypershock.
He was having issues there.
Peter, if you have
the extra wheel,
you might want
to give that to will.
But it was amazing that
hypershock still had
that much power,
even with its two front tires
basically incapacitated.
[chris] you see tires
flying everywhere.
They are still fighting.
I mean, that was crazy.
You know, in a nascar race,
if that happens,
you call their pit crew.
You cannot do that inside
of the battle box
and look at the crowning blow
to finish it off
as donald hutson's
lock-jaw flies
several feet behind
the barrier for the ko.
Thank you.
[audience cheering]
[chris] will bales.
Hey, will, explain to us
how you won to fight
with your tires all chewed up.
Apparently,
we don't need most of them.
[laughing]
um, donald can have 'em back.
The robot drives really well.
Two seasons ago, we managed
most of the fight against
bite force
with one wheel left,
so it tracks really well.
I've luckily gotten enough
driving practice
with the last version
to be able to kind
of just scoot around
and we're just happy
that everything worked
the whole time.
It's a miracle.
Will, you went
against donald hutson,
a legend of the game.
What has he meant
to your career?
Donald, when I was a kid,
donald was the guy
who kept winning
and we all looked up to,
like you said, I had his --
I had his happy meal toy,
I had his rc toy,
I had everything dissector
or taz-bot.
It was-- they were
the coolest robots to me.
So when I grew up,
I wanted to build robots
as cool as his.
So to be able to fight him
at all is a dream come true.
To be able to win is a fluke.
That I will take,
and you can't have it back.
[laughs]
will, congratulations
on your 2-0 start.
Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.
[audience cheering]
thank you.
You're the best.
Year after year,
we joke with will bales,
one thing falls apart,
and all of a sudden
his robot dies
on the floor there.
I mean, how happy
do you think that team is?
I mean, they've got
to be elated.
This is the best
they have ever looked.
I mean, the robot looked
fantastic just aesthetically,
but then their driving
is on point.
Their weapon is hitting hard.
Everything is going perfectly
for them right now.
[chris] and what a great
fight card we had tonight.
Rotator improved to 2-0
in a blazing barbeque
of a battle.
We saw an emotional win
by minotaur,
as driver daniel freitas got
the brazilians back
to their winning ways.
Team yeti got its swagger
back with its first win
in a demolition derby
versus pain train and again,
will bales and hypershock
improved to 2-0,
could they be a dark horse
to make a deep tournament run
this year?
Well, this was a ton of fun,
as always, so for faruq,
our bot whisperer pete,
my man, kenny florian,
I'm chris rose.
We'll see you next time
on battlebots.